docs/home/portalUpdates.md, before:

# Recent portal updates
This page provides details on significant changes to this portal.

# July 2022

## Removal of Docker Compose examples

With the focus of using Helm to provision to Kubernetes as the recommended practice, the multi-product Docker Compose examples were no longer maintained or supported and have been removed.  The only examples that remain are for single-product deployments. For orchestrating multiple products, see the [Helm examples](../deployment/deployHelm.md).

## Removal of Kubernetes Kustomize examples

Kustomize was the former method for for Kubernetes orchestration. As most of those examples were replaced by Helm, the Kustomize guides and files were also removed from this portal.

## Confirmation of Documentation

We received reports in recent weeks that some of examples were not working due to changes in Kubernetes version support, files that had been removed from this repository, and other reasons. All examples and guides on this portal have been reviewed and should work as written.

Commit message:

providing links and emphasis on videos across the portal

docs/home/portalUpdates.md, after:

# Recent portal updates
This page provides details on significant changes to this portal.

# November 2022

## Video content is arriving

In recent weeks, videos on topics relevant to the DevOps program at Ping have started to be released.  Look for links on some pages where the videos are relevant, or you can browse all videos [here](../videos/videos.md).

# July 2022

## Removal of Docker Compose examples

With the focus of using Helm to provision to Kubernetes as the recommended practice, the multi-product Docker Compose examples were no longer maintained or supported and have been removed.  The only examples that remain are for single-product deployments. For orchestrating multiple products, see the [Helm examples](../deployment/deployHelm.md).

## Removal of Kubernetes Kustomize examples

Kustomize was the former method for for Kubernetes orchestration. As most of those examples were replaced by Helm, the Kustomize guides and files were also removed from this portal.

## Confirmation of Documentation

We received reports in recent weeks that some of examples were not working due to changes in Kubernetes version support, files that had been removed from this repository, and other reasons. All examples and guides on this portal have been reviewed and should work as written.
