11-docker-compose/01-simple-stack/README.md, before:

# Purpose
This build on the previous "docker stand-alone" set of tutorials and shows how we can more simply assemble -or "compose"- containers together into a functioning service.

## Getting started
First off, create a local directory that is going to be used to persist the mutable data from PingDirectory

  `mkdir /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory`

Start compose wih:

  `docker-compose up -d`

View container logs with: 

`docker-compose logs`

## Using the containers
At this poing you should see docker-compose create the services for a PingFederate instance and a PingDirectory instance.  Note that
these services are started up in the foreground.  Upon exiting (ctrl-C), the services will be stopped.

Once the PingDirectory instance is up, 

* Goto: https://localhost:9031/OAuthPlayground
* Click on ```implicit``` 
* Log in with user.0 / 2FederateM0re

The PingFederate management console

* Goto: https://localhost:9999/pingfederate/app
* Log in with Administrator / 2FederateM0re

PingDirectory exposes LDAP traffic via an LDAPS port 1636. 
* Navigate to https://localhost:1636/dc=example,dc=com

## More exploration
You can take a look at the files in /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory for details about what the PingDirectory persists to the volume mount

## Cleaning up
To bring the swarm down and clean up the instance created:

* `docker-compose down`
* `rm -rf /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory`

Commit message:

add a disclaimer to pull the latest images before running the stack

11-docker-compose/01-simple-stack/README.md, after:

# Purpose
This build on the previous "docker stand-alone" set of tutorials and shows how we can more simply assemble -or "compose"- containers together into a functioning service.

## Getting started
First off, create a local directory that is going to be used to persist the mutable data from PingDirectory

  `mkdir /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory`

The images are updated very frequently, sometimes multiple times a day, make sure you have the latest version of the images with:
  `docker-compose pull`
  
Start compose wih:

  `docker-compose up -d`

View container logs with: 

`docker-compose logs`

## Using the containers
At this poing you should see docker-compose create the services for a PingFederate instance and a PingDirectory instance.  Note that
these services are started up in the foreground.  Upon exiting (ctrl-C), the services will be stopped.

Once the PingDirectory instance is up, 

* Goto: https://localhost:9031/OAuthPlayground
* Click on ```implicit``` 
* Log in with user.0 / 2FederateM0re

The PingFederate management console

* Goto: https://localhost:9999/pingfederate/app
* Log in with Administrator / 2FederateM0re

PingDirectory exposes LDAP traffic via an LDAPS port 1636. 
* Navigate to https://localhost:1636/dc=example,dc=com

## More exploration
You can take a look at the files in /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory for details about what the PingDirectory persists to the volume mount

## Cleaning up
To bring the swarm down and clean up the instance created:

* `docker-compose down`
* `rm -rf /tmp/Compose/pingdirectory`
