docs/docker-images/pingdownloader/README.md, before:


# Ping Identity Docker Image - `pingdownloader`

This docker image provides an alpine image to help with the download of
Ping product images and licenses.

## Related Docker Images
- `alpine` - Parent Image

## Usage
```shell
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p <product_name>
```
### Options
```shell
-v, --version: the version of the product to download. by default, the downloader will pull the latest version

-c, --conserve-name: use this option to conserve the original file name. By   default, the downloader will rename the file product.zip

-n, --dry-run:	this will cause the URL to be displayed but the the bits not to be downloaded

```
## Examples
Download the latest PingDirectory
```
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingDirectory
```

Download a specific version of PingDirectory
```
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingDirectory -v 7.3.0.0
```

Download a product to /tmp on the host, as opposed to /tmp in the PingDownloader container
```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingFederate
```
## Docker Container Hook Scripts
Please go [here](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/tree/master/docs/docker-images/pingdownloader/hooks/README.md) for details on all pingdownloader hook scripts

---
This document auto-generated from _[pingdownloader/Dockerfile](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds/blob/master/pingdownloader/Dockerfile)_

Copyright (c)  2019 Ping Identity Corporation. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

add example of obtaining license file for convenience

docs/docker-images/pingdownloader/README.md, after:


# Ping Identity Docker Image - `pingdownloader`

This docker image provides an alpine image to help with the download of
Ping product images and licenses.

## Related Docker Images
- `alpine` - Parent Image

## Usage
```shell
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p <product_name>
```
### Options
```shell
-v, --version: the version of the product to download. by default, the downloader will pull the latest version

-c, --conserve-name: use this option to conserve the original file name. By   default, the downloader will rename the file product.zip

-n, --dry-run:	this will cause the URL to be displayed but the the bits not to be downloaded

```
## Examples
Download the latest PingDirectory
```
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingDirectory
```

Obtain the license file for the latest PingDirectory in the current directory
```
docker run --rm -t -v $( pwd ):/tmp --env-file ~/.pingidentity/devops pingidentity/pingdownloader -l -p pingdirectory -c
```

Download a specific version of PingDirectory
```
docker run pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingDirectory -v 7.3.0.0
```

Download a product to /tmp on the host, as opposed to /tmp in the PingDownloader container
```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp pingidentity/pingdownloader -p PingFederate
```
## Docker Container Hook Scripts
Please go [here](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/tree/master/docs/docker-images/pingdownloader/hooks/README.md) for details on all pingdownloader hook scripts

---
This document auto-generated from _[pingdownloader/Dockerfile](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds/blob/master/pingdownloader/Dockerfile)_

Copyright (c)  2019 Ping Identity Corporation. All rights reserved.
