11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/README.md, before:

# Ping Stack with ElasticSearch SIEM -- BETA version (.1)
#### Built by Ryan Ivis with Ping Identity   
#### Project Salt Water

The goal of this project is to have pre-built security dashboards to ride along side our products. The initial phase is currently working on PingFederate Audit Logs. 

---------------

## Latest Build News (SLACK INTEGRATION! / ILM Bootstrapped)
- Migrated all indexes to using ILM. This means by default the stack will only store 2 days worth of logs and ensure indexes do not grow over 2GB. This is done because the enviroment is setup as a demo. HEAP sizes in the ES server are SMALL becasue this is a demo. I will soon have production ready documents written to show customers how this can be brought to production.
- Tested updating to elastic 7.6.1 (all good)
- Added in Slack Alerting! 
- The process requires running a script after you start your stack. 
- The script will ask you for your webhook url, then add the configuration into the elasticsearch keystore.
- To run the script run the config_slack_alerts.sh script from the project directory end enter in your webhook URL.

---------------

## Status
| Phase    | Ping Product                                |  Status     |
|----------|---------------------------------------------|-------------|
| Phase 1  | PingFederate Audit Logs                     | Complete    |
| Phase 1a | PingFederate Provisioner Logs               | Complete    |
| Phase 1b | PingFederate System Logs                    | Complete    |
| Phase 2  | LDAP Integrate ElasticSearch / Kibana       | In Progress |
| Phase 2a | Ping SIEM Dashboard                         | Beta        |
| Phase 2b | PingDirectory Load Generator (thanks arno)  | Complete    |
| Phase 2c | Index Mapping rework for PD data index      | Complete    | 
| Phase 2d | Migrate All Indexes to use ILM vs Date/Time | Complete    |
| Phase 2e | Ping Federate Threat Detection Dashboard    | Beta        |
| Phase 3  | PingDirectory Logs                          | Complete    | 
| Phase 4  | PingAccess Logs                             | Complete    |
| Phase 5  | Test and Implement 30 Trial ES Watchers     | Complete    |
| Phase 6  | Help GTE / RSA Implement Customer Demos     | Not Started |
| Phase 7  | Slack Integrate Alerts from SIEM.           | Complete    |
| Phase 8  | Develop Several Custom Alerts               | In Progress |
| Phase 9  | Develop Production Grade Deployment Doc     | In Progress |


---------------

## What is this ?
![alt text](https://github.com/ryanivis/ping-devops-es-siem/blob/master/images/Architecture.png "Architecture Overview")
- Threat Intel and TOR Endpoints are being provided by AlienVault and the TOR Network Endpoint List.  
- Threat Feeds are updated on an interval via setting a var in docker-compose !!!

This project will start a Ping Stack with Elastic Search Infrastructure built in for visualizing traffic and other security / log data.

---------------

## Important Note
- **THIS EXISTING SETUP IS NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION. THERE ARE DEFAULT PASSWORDS THAT MUST BE MODIFIED**...   
     
- **THERE ARE PERSISTENT DISKS USED FOR ELASTIC SEARCH DATA, AND ELASTIC SEARCH CERTS. TO CLEAR THEM WHEN YOU ARE DONE TESTING RUN**...   
	- `docker volume prune`  

- **YOU MUST RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMAND ON UBUNTU (LIKELY OTHER DISTRO'S) TO SUPPORT HEAP SIZES**
	- `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144`


# Directions
- Contact DevOps / Ping Sales Team and collect a DevOps user account / key.
- (Optional / Recommended for Alerting) Pre work: Generate a Slack Webhook URL from Slack Admin. https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks
- To setup on AWS use a M5.XL or M5a.XL (16GB RAM REQUIRED // 50GB MIN STORAGE Recommended)
  - Install Docker / Docker Compose on your EC2 or Physical System
  - `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` This step is required on linux systems.
- Create a working directory to place your project in `mkdir pingDevOps` (example) (and cd to the folder)
- Clone this project to your local disk.  
  - `git clone https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started.git`
- Within the Project change directory to the following path. `pingidentity-devops-getting-started/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/`
- Create and place a file `.env` in the above path and place these lines in it (UPDATE YOUR DEVOPS KEY AS SHOWN).

```
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=es   

ELASTIC_VERSION=7.6.1   
ELASTIC_SECURITY=true    
ELASTIC_PASSWORD=2FederateM0re   

CERTS_DIR=/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/certificates

PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER={YOUR DEVOPS USER NAME HERE}       <====== NOTICE THIS
PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY={YOUR DEVOPS KEY HERE}              <====== NOTICE THIS
```

- Start the stack with `docker-compose up -d`  

- (Optional) Run the Slack configuration script to configure slack alerts `./config_slack_alerts`
  - The first time you must provide your webhook URL that you created above.
  - You can re-run this script any time which will update and push new watchers you create from the `./elasticsearch-siem/watchers` folder! You don't need to provide your webhook in the future. If you don't provide it, it simply will not update it.
  - The script asks for webhook URL and elasticsearch password.
    - The webhook URL updates the destination for your alerts within slack
    - The password is used to push watchers into elasticsearch

- Monitor the stack with `docker-compose logs --follow`
------------

## Included Slack Alerts (these can be customized through Watchers)
 - User Authenticates successfully from TOR through Ping Federate. (potential credential theft)
 - User Authenticates successfully from Known Malicious IP through Ping Federate. (potential credential theft)
 - Account Lockout detected through Ping Federate. (potential brute force)
 - Likely SAML Signature Modifications (Forced Tampering with Authentication Protocols)
------------
## Slack Alert Examples

### Low / Medium / High Alert Examples
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/slack_alert_examples.png "Successful Login From TOR Networks.")

------------
## Dashboard Examples

### Demo Ping Federate Threat Intel Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/threat_intel_dash.png "SIEM Dashboard")

### Demo Ping SIEM Dashboard (Beta 4) - More security use cases are coming soon.
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/dashboard.png "SIEM Dashboard")

### Ping Federate Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingfederate_dashboard.png "PingFederate Basic Demo Dashboard")

### Demo Access Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingaccess_dashboard.png "PingAccess Basic Demo Dashboard")

### Demo Directory Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingdirectory_dashboard.png "PingDirectory Demo Dashboard")

------------

## PingDirectory
- Audit Logs are being delivered
- There are 2 containers that produce load, you can STOP these containers to save on CPU
    - authrate_ok
    - authrate_ko

------------

## PingFederate
- Audit and System logs are delivered.

------------

## PingAccess
 - Audit Logs are being delivered

------------

## Kibana Access
- Kibana listens on https://{IP}:5601  
- DEFAULT PASSWORDS  
    - UN is configured as "elastic"  
    - PASSWORD is configured as "2FederateM0re"  

------------

## Important Notes <--READ
- Allow 5-10 min for the stack to come up!
- The stack spins up a few containers that send load to PingDirectory, below you will find directions to disable those.
- **If updating the Elastic Password**
	- ping-devops-es-siem/.env 
- This uses the default elastic user. This is **bad practice** and you should configure service users for logstash / kibana.
- Server Side TLS Certificate Validation is not enabled on the demo it is set to 'none' in the ES configuration
- TLS is used between ES nodes, as well as between Logstash and Kibana.
- Certs are all self signed.

------------
## Kibana Saved Objects
- Saved Objects can be loaded by going to 'saved objects' under kibana settings and exporting all. Save the file in the...  
	- ./elasticsearch-siem/kibana_config/kib_base.ndjson  

- They will be reloaded when the stack is reloaded!!! This enables you to save objects for dashboards and reload!

------------
## ElasticSearch Template for PingFederate Audit Logs
- Elasticsearch will load the PF-Audit Template such that logs will have the correct field types for searching ONLY working for the AUDIT logs if you use the Included LOG4J format within this PF baseline.
- The Scripts will load this template(s) once cluster state is green.
	- ./elasticsearch-siem/elasticsearch_config/****

------------
## Logstash Pipeline
- TOR Enrichment
- Threat Intel (Alien Vault Provided)
- GEO IP Lookup
- Data Parsing
- Logstash Pipeline is stored in the folder structure. It includes Parsers for All Ping Log Sources.

------------
## PingFederate
- Ping Fed ships logs on 2 different SYSLOG PORTS, with a CUSTOM mappings.
------------

------------
## PingDirectory
- Ping Fed ships logs on 1 SYSLOG PORT, with a CUSTOM mapping.
------------

------------
## PingAccess
- Ping Fed ships logs on 2 different SYSLOG PORTS, with a CUSTOM mappings.
------------

Commit message:

LDAP Integration into SIEM Stack. login to kibana now supports PingDirectory users (assuming you are in the right group)

11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/README.md, after:

# Ping Stack with ElasticSearch SIEM -- BETA version (.1)
#### Built by Ryan Ivis with Ping Identity   
#### Project Salt Water

The goal of this project is to have pre-built security dashboards to ride along side our products. The initial phase is currently working on PingFederate Audit Logs. 

---------------

## Latest Build News (SLACK INTEGRATION! / ILM Bootstrapped / Authentication via LDAP (Ping Directory))
- Modified many of the configurations to support logging in via LDAP. There is a user in the 
- Migrated all indexes to using ILM. This means by default the stack will only store 2 days worth of logs and ensure indexes do not grow over 2GB. This is done because the enviroment is setup as a demo. HEAP sizes in the ES server are SMALL becasue this is a demo. I will soon have production ready documents written to show customers how this can be brought to production.
- Tested updating to elastic 7.6.1 (all good)
- Added in Slack Alerting! 
- The process requires running a script after you start your stack. 
- The script will ask you for your webhook url, then add the configuration into the elasticsearch keystore.
- To run the script run the config_slack_alerts.sh script from the project directory end enter in your webhook URL.

---------------

## Status
| Phase    | Ping Product                                |  Status     |
|----------|---------------------------------------------|-------------|
| Phase 1  | PingFederate Audit Logs                     | Complete    |
| Phase 1a | PingFederate Provisioner Logs               | Complete    |
| Phase 1b | PingFederate System Logs                    | Complete    |
| Phase 2  | LDAP Integrate ElasticSearch / Kibana       | Complete |
| Phase 2a | Ping SIEM Dashboard                         | Beta        |
| Phase 2b | PingDirectory Load Generator (thanks arno)  | Complete    |
| Phase 2c | Index Mapping rework for PD data index      | Complete    | 
| Phase 2d | Migrate All Indexes to use ILM vs Date/Time | Complete    |
| Phase 2e | Ping Federate Threat Detection Dashboard    | Beta        |
| Phase 3  | PingDirectory Logs                          | Complete    | 
| Phase 4  | PingAccess Logs                             | Complete    |
| Phase 5  | Test and Implement 30 Trial ES Watchers     | Complete    |
| Phase 6  | Help GTE / RSA Implement Customer Demos     | Not Started |
| Phase 7  | Slack Integrate Alerts from SIEM.           | Complete    |
| Phase 8  | Develop Several Custom Alerts               | In Progress |
| Phase 9  | Develop Production Grade Deployment Doc     | In Progress |


---------------

## What is this ?
![alt text](https://github.com/ryanivis/ping-devops-es-siem/blob/master/images/Architecture.png "Architecture Overview")
- Threat Intel and TOR Endpoints are being provided by AlienVault and the TOR Network Endpoint List.  
- Threat Feeds are updated on an interval via setting a var in docker-compose !!!

This project will start a Ping Stack with Elastic Search Infrastructure built in for visualizing traffic and other security / log data.

---------------

## Important Note
- **THIS EXISTING SETUP IS NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION. THERE ARE DEFAULT PASSWORDS THAT MUST BE MODIFIED**...   
     
- **THERE ARE PERSISTENT DISKS USED FOR ELASTIC SEARCH DATA, AND ELASTIC SEARCH CERTS. TO CLEAR THEM WHEN YOU ARE DONE TESTING RUN**...   
	- `docker volume prune`  

- **YOU MUST RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMAND ON UBUNTU (LIKELY OTHER DISTRO'S) TO SUPPORT HEAP SIZES**
	- `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144`


# Directions
- Contact DevOps / Ping Sales Team and collect a DevOps user account / key.
- (Optional / Recommended for Alerting) Pre work: Generate a Slack Webhook URL from Slack Admin. https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks
- To setup on AWS use a M5.XL or M5a.XL (16GB RAM REQUIRED // 50GB MIN STORAGE Recommended)
  - Install Docker / Docker Compose on your EC2 or Physical System
  - `sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` This step is required on linux systems.
- Create a working directory to place your project in `mkdir pingDevOps` (example) (and cd to the folder)
- Clone this project to your local disk.  
  - `git clone https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started.git`
- Within the Project change directory to the following path. `pingidentity-devops-getting-started/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/`
- Create and place a file `.env` in the above path and place these lines in it (UPDATE YOUR DEVOPS KEY AS SHOWN).

```
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=es   

ELASTIC_VERSION=7.6.1   
ELASTIC_SECURITY=true    
ELASTIC_PASSWORD=2FederateM0re   
ES_ADMIN_PD_USER_PASS=FederateTheB3st!

CERTS_DIR=/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/certificates

PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER={YOUR DEVOPS USER NAME HERE}       <====== NOTICE THIS
PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY={YOUR DEVOPS KEY HERE}              <====== NOTICE THIS
```

- Start the stack with `docker-compose up -d`  

- (Optional) Run the Slack configuration script to configure slack alerts `./config_slack_alerts`
  - The first time you must provide your webhook URL that you created above.
  - You can re-run this script any time which will update and push new watchers you create from the `./elasticsearch-siem/watchers` folder! You don't need to provide your webhook in the future. If you don't provide it, it simply will not update it.
  - The script asks for webhook URL and elasticsearch password.
    - The webhook URL updates the destination for your alerts within slack
    - The password is used to push watchers into elasticsearch

- Monitor the stack with `docker-compose logs --follow`

- Login to kibana at `https://localhost:5601/` (Wait for PingDirectory to full start)
  - The stack is now LDAP INTEGRATED so you can login with `es_admin` which is a user in PingDirectory (Password is in the .env file configuration listed above (ES_ADMIN_PD_USER_PASS)
------------

## Included Slack Alerts (these can be customized through Watchers)
 - User Authenticates successfully from TOR through Ping Federate. (potential credential theft)
 - User Authenticates successfully from Known Malicious IP through Ping Federate. (potential credential theft)
 - Account Lockout detected through Ping Federate. (potential brute force)
 - Likely SAML Signature Modifications (Forced Tampering with Authentication Protocols)
------------
## Slack Alert Examples

### Low / Medium / High Alert Examples
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/slack_alert_examples.png "Successful Login From TOR Networks.")

------------
## Dashboard Examples

### Demo Ping Federate Threat Intel Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/threat_intel_dash.png "SIEM Dashboard")

### Demo Ping SIEM Dashboard (Beta 4) - More security use cases are coming soon.
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/dashboard.png "SIEM Dashboard")

### Ping Federate Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingfederate_dashboard.png "PingFederate Basic Demo Dashboard")

### Demo Access Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingaccess_dashboard.png "PingAccess Basic Demo Dashboard")

### Demo Directory Demo Dashboard
![alt text](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/11-docker-compose/11-siem-stack/images/pingdirectory_dashboard.png "PingDirectory Demo Dashboard")

------------

## PingDirectory
- Audit Logs are being delivered
- There are 2 containers that produce load, you can STOP these containers to save on CPU
    - authrate_ok
    - authrate_ko

------------

## PingFederate
- Audit and System logs are delivered.

------------

## PingAccess
 - Audit Logs are being delivered

------------

## Kibana Access
- Kibana listens on https://{IP}:5601  
- DEFAULT PASSWORDS  
    - UN is configured as "elastic"  
    - PASSWORD is configured as "2FederateM0re"  

------------

## Important Notes <--READ
- Allow 5-10 min for the stack to come up!
- The stack spins up a few containers that send load to PingDirectory, below you will find directions to disable those.
- **If updating the Elastic Password**
	- ping-devops-es-siem/.env 
- This uses the default elastic user. This is **bad practice** and you should configure service users for logstash / kibana.
- Server Side TLS Certificate Validation is not enabled on the demo it is set to 'none' in the ES configuration
- TLS is used between ES nodes, as well as between Logstash and Kibana.
- Certs are all self signed.

------------
## Kibana Saved Objects
- Saved Objects can be loaded by going to 'saved objects' under kibana settings and exporting all. Save the file in the...  
	- ./elasticsearch-siem/kibana_config/kib_base.ndjson  

- They will be reloaded when the stack is reloaded!!! This enables you to save objects for dashboards and reload!

------------
## ElasticSearch Template for PingFederate Audit Logs
- Elasticsearch will load the PF-Audit Template such that logs will have the correct field types for searching ONLY working for the AUDIT logs if you use the Included LOG4J format within this PF baseline.
- The Scripts will load this template(s) once cluster state is green.
	- ./elasticsearch-siem/elasticsearch_config/****

------------
## Logstash Pipeline
- TOR Enrichment
- Threat Intel (Alien Vault Provided)
- GEO IP Lookup
- Data Parsing
- Logstash Pipeline is stored in the folder structure. It includes Parsers for All Ping Log Sources.

------------
## PingFederate
- Ping Fed ships logs on 2 different SYSLOG PORTS, with a CUSTOM mappings.
------------

------------
## PingDirectory
- Ping Fed ships logs on 1 SYSLOG PORT, with a CUSTOM mapping.
------------

------------
## PingAccess
- Ping Fed ships logs on 2 different SYSLOG PORTS, with a CUSTOM mappings.
------------
