docs/server-profiles/README.md, before:

# Server Profiles

Ping Identity Server Profiles are used to provide the configuration, data, environment details to Ping Identity Docker Images.

## Available Server Profiles

There are several Ping Identity Server Profiles available in the Ping Identity Github repositories. They are outlined in the table below.

| Server Profile | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| [Getting Started](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/getting-started) | Ping Identity products with basic install/config |
| [Baseline](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/baseline) | Ping Identity products with full integration |
| [Simple Sync](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/simple-sync) | DataSync server sync'ing between two PingDirectory trees |

## Playground Server Profiles

There is a Github Repository containing samples, experimental, training types of server profiles that may be created to help with examples and getting started projects. These are guaranteed to be documented as they are often one off examples of different concepts. Some of these products include:

| Server Profile | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| [PingFed Cluster](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/pf-aws-s3-clustering) | Configuring a PingFed cluster with admin/engine nodes |
| [PingOne for Customer](https://github.com/pingidentity/server-profile-pingidentity-playground/tree/master/pingone-cloud) | Use cases around PingOne for Customer |

Commit message:

Add security messaging to server profile readme

docs/server-profiles/README.md, after:

# Server Profiles

Ping Identity Server Profiles are used to provide the configuration, data, environment details to Ping Identity Docker Images.

## Security Warning

The server profiles referenced within this repository are for demo and documentation purposes only. They contain default keys/credentials etc and are not suitable for production and carry a substantial security risk.

For additional information, please see [SECURITY.md](../../SECURITY.md)

## Available Server Profiles

There are several Ping Identity Server Profiles available in the Ping Identity Github repositories. They are outlined in the table below.

| Server Profile | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| [Getting Started](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/getting-started) | Ping Identity products with basic install/config |
| [Baseline](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/baseline) | Ping Identity products with full integration |
| [Simple Sync](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/simple-sync) | DataSync server sync'ing between two PingDirectory trees |

## Playground Server Profiles

There is a Github Repository containing samples, experimental, training types of server profiles that may be created to help with examples and getting started projects. These are guaranteed to be documented as they are often one off examples of different concepts. Some of these products include:

| Server Profile | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| [PingFed Cluster](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles/tree/master/pf-aws-s3-clustering) | Configuring a PingFed cluster with admin/engine nodes |
| [PingOne for Customer](https://github.com/pingidentity/server-profile-pingidentity-playground/tree/master/pingone-cloud) | Use cases around PingOne for Customer |
