docs/deployK8sPD-clusters.md, before:

# PingDirectory deployments across Kubernetes clusters

This example is an extension of the topic *Orchestrate a replicated PingDirectory deployment* in [Kubernetes orchestration for general use](deployK8sGeneral.md). Here you'll deploy PingDirectory containers across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

![K8S Multi-Cluster Overview](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-overview.png)

Because details within each Kubernetes cluster are well-hidden from outside the cluster, external access to each pod within the cluster is required. The PingDirectory images will set up access to each of the pods using load-balancers from an external host, to allow each pod to communicate over the LDAP and replication protocols.

## Modes of Deployment

There are two types of deployments: using a single load-balancer (such as, AWS NLB), 
or multiple load-balancers.

### Single load-balancer

Here's a diagram of how a single load-balancer can be used:

![Single load-balancer](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-single-lb.png)

* Advantages
  * Decreased cost of a single load-balancer.
  * Single IP required.
  * Easier DNS management.
    * Wildcard DNS domain.
    * Or separate hosts pointing to load-balancer.
* Disadvantages
  * More port mapping requirements.
  * Many external ports to manage and track.

### Multiple load-balancers

Here's a diagram of how a single load-balancer can be used:

![Multiple load-balancers](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-multi-lb.png)

* Advantages
  * Use the same well-known port (such as, 636/8989).
  * Separate IP addresses per instance.
* Disadvantages
  * DNS management
    * Separate hostname required per instance.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|---|:---:|---|
| `K8S_CLUSTERS` | *** | The total list of Kubernetes clusters that the StatefulSet will replicate to. |
| `K8S_CLUSTER` | *** | The Kubernetes cluster the StatefulSet will be deployed to. |
| `K8S_SEED_CLUSTER` | *** | The Kubernetes cluster that the seed server is deployed to. |
| `K8S_NUM_REPLICAS` |     | The number of replicas that make up the StatefulSet. |
| `K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_PREFIX` |     | The string used as the prefix for all host names.  Defaults to `StatefulSet`. |
| `K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX` |     | The string used as the suffix for all pod host names.  Defaults to `K8S_CLUSTER`. |
| `K8S_SEED_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX` |     | The string used as the suffix for all seed host names.  Defaults to `K8S_SEED_CLUSTER`. |
| `K8S_INCREMENT_PORTS` |     | `true` or `false`.  If `true`, each pod's port will be incremented by 1. |

An example of the YAML configuration for these environment variables:

```yaml
K8S_STATEFUL_SET_NAME=pingdirectory
K8S_STATEFUL_SET_SERVICE_NAME=pingdirectory

K8S_CLUSTERS=us-east-2 eu-west-1
K8S_CLUSTER=us-east-2
K8S_SEED_CLUSTER=us-east-2
K8S_NUM_REPLICAS=3

K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_PREFIX=pd-
K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX=.us-cluster.ping-devops.com
K8S_SEED_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX=.us-cluster.ping-devops.com

K8S_INCREMENT_PORTS=true
LDAPS_PORT=8600
REPLICATION_PORT=8700
```

These environment variable settings would map out like this:

| Seed | Pod | Instance | Host name | LDAP | REPL |
| :---: | :---: | --- | --- | :---: | :---: |
|      |     | CLUSTER: us-east-2
| ***  | *** | pingdirectory-0.us-east-2 | pd-0.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8600  | 8700 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-1.us-east-2 | pd-1.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8601  | 8701 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-2.us-east-2 | pd-2.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8602  | 8702 |
|      |     | CLUSTER: eu-west-1
|      |     | pingdirectory-0.eu-west-1 | pd-0.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8600  | 8700 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-1.eu-west-1 | pd-1.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8601  | 8701 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-2.eu-west-1 | pd-2.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8602  | 8702 |

## `StatefulSet` pod services

The `StatefulSet` service manages stateful objects for each pod.

An example of the StatefulSet service configuration (one pod):

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pingdirectory-0-service
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: pingdirectory-0
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8600
      targetPort: 8600
      name: ldaps
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8700
      targetPort: 8700
      name: repl
```

## Additional Kubernetes resources required

In addition to the StatefulSet, other resources are required to properly map the load-balancers to the
pods. This diagram shows each of those resources:

![K8S Required Resources](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-resources.png)

### DNS

A DNS entry will be required at the load-balancer to direct a wildcard domain or individual host names
to the load-balancer created by the NGINX Ingress Service or Controller.  For AWS, this can simply be an `A record` alias for each host, or a wildcard `A record` for any host in that domain.

### NGINX Ingress Service and Controller

Several components map the ports from the external load-balancer through the NGINX Service and Controller:

* External load-balancer

  Provides an external IP and obtains definitions from the Ingress NGINX Service.

* Ingress NGINX Service

  Maps all port ranges (SEED_LDAPS_PORT, SEED_REPLICATION_PORT) to the same target port range.

* NGINX Ingress Controller

  Maps all port ranges to stateful set pods.

> **Caution**: Typically, the NGINX Service and TCP services (see the following *NGINX TCP services* topic) require additional namespace access (such as, `ingress-nginx-public`). Any additional applications using this service or controller will generally require additional privileges to manage this resource.

An example of the NGINX Service configuration:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: ingress-nginx
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
  namespace: ingress-nginx-public
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
spec:
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: load-balancer
  ports:
    - name: http
      port: 80
      targetPort: http
    - name: https
      port: 443
      targetPort: https
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-0
      port: 8600
      targetPort: 8600
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-1
      port: 8601
      targetPort: 8601
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-2
      port: 8602
      targetPort: 8602
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-0
      port: 8700
      targetPort: 8700
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-1
      port: 8701
      targetPort: 8701
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-2
      port: 8702
      targetPort: 8702
```

### NGINX TCP services

The ConfigMap for TCP services (`tcp-services`) provides the mappings from the target ports on the NGINX Controller to the associated pod service.

> You'll need to replace the variable `${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}` with the namespace that your
 StatefulSet and Services are deployed into.

An example of the ConfigMap for the NGINX TCP services configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: tcp-services
  namespace: ingress-nginx-public
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
data:
  8600: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-0-service:8600"
  8601: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-1-service:8601"
  8602: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-2-service:8602"
  8700: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-0-service:8700"
  8701: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-1-service:8701"
  8702: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-2-service:8702"
```

## Deployment Example

The examples in `20-kubernetes/05-multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory` will create an
example deployment across 3 clusters in AWS EKS:

* us-east-2 (SEED Cluster)
* eu-west-1

First, deploy the nginx services and configmap for the example.  This will allow
the services to be reached by the nginx controller via an AWS Network Load 
Balancer (nlb).  You must run these with a aws/kubernetes profile allowing for
apply into the `ingress-nginx-public` namespace.  Also, be aware that there may 
already be other definitions found.  You may need to merge.

```
  kubectl apply -f nginx-service.yaml
  kubectl apply -f nginx-tcp-services.yaml
```

The `cluster.sh` script will create the .yaml necessary to deploy a set of Ping 
Directory instances in each cluster and replication between.

```
  Usage: cluster.sh OPERATION {options}
   where OPERATION in:
        create
        apply
        delete

   where options in:
        --cluster {cluster}  - Cluster name used to identify different env_vars.pingdirecory
                               files

        --context {context}  - Name of Kubernetes context.
                                  Defaults to current context: tsigle.ping-dev-aws-us-east-2

        -d,--dry-run            - Provides the commands

  Example:
      cluster.sh create --cluser us-east-2
```

### Steps to create .yaml for us-east-2

Replace `your-cluster-name` with the name use are using.  Using the cluster name
`us-east-2`, the script will generate a .yaml using kustomize, using the files:

* `multi-cluster`
  * `kustomization.yaml`
  * `pingdirectory-service-clusterip.yaml`
  * `env_vars.pingdirectory` (built from env_vars.pingdirectory.multi-cluster and us-east-2)
* `base`
  * `kustomization.yaml`
  * `https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/20-kubernetes/03-replicated-pingdirectory`
  * `env_vars.pingdirectory`
  * `limits.yaml`

```
   ./cluster.sh delete --cluster us-east-2 --context your-cluster-name --dry-run
```

This will create a .yaml called `ouptut-us-east-2.yaml`.  

Next, ensure that your `devops-secret` and `tls-secret` are created.

```
  ping-devops generate devops-secret | kubectl create -f -
  ping-devops generate tls-secret ping-devops.com | kubectl create -f -
```

and create the instances using the generated `output-us-east-2.yaml`.

```
  kubectl create -f output-us-east-2.yaml
```

Commit message:

Multi cluster docs (#151)
* PF Multi-cluster with DNS_PING

* fix links

* reorder precedence

docs/deployK8sPD-clusters.md, after:

# PingDirectory deployments across Kubernetes clusters

This example is an extension of the topic *Orchestrate a replicated PingDirectory deployment* in [Kubernetes orchestration for general use](deployK8sGeneral.md). Here you'll deploy PingDirectory containers across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

![K8S Multi-Cluster Overview](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-overview.png)

## Overview

Having a replicated PingDirectory topology across multiple kubernetes clusters is desired for highly-availabile active/active deployments as well as active/partial-active scenarios where a hot backup is expected. 

PingIdentity PingDirectory Docker Images abstract away much of the complexity of replication initialization scripts, even across clusters. Instead, the focus is on 
providing accessible DNS hostnames across clusters and environment variables to build ordinal hostnames for each Directory instance. 

## What you will do

- First understand what PingDirectory containers look for in order to create the replication topology.
- Then determine the variables needed to create your hostnames
- Then look at the reference deployment examples for ideas on what may work best in your infrastructure. 

Because details within each Kubernetes cluster are well-hidden from outside the cluster, external access to each pod within the cluster is required. The PingDirectory images will set up access to each of the pods using load-balancers from an external host, to allow each pod to communicate over the LDAP and replication protocols.

## Modes of Deployment

There are two types of deployments: using a single load-balancer (such as, AWS NLB), 
or multiple load-balancers.

### Single load-balancer

Here's a diagram of how a single load-balancer can be used:

![Single load-balancer](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-single-lb.png)

* Advantages
  * Decreased cost of a single load-balancer.
  * Single IP required.
  * Easier DNS management.
    * Wildcard DNS domain.
    * Or separate hosts pointing to load-balancer.
* Disadvantages
  * More port mapping requirements.
  * Many external ports to manage and track.

### Multiple load-balancers

Here's a diagram of how a single load-balancer can be used:

![Multiple load-balancers](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-multi-lb.png)

* Advantages
  * Use the same well-known port (such as, 636/8989).
  * Separate IP addresses per instance.
* Disadvantages
  * DNS management
    * Separate hostname required per instance.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|---|:---:|---|
| `K8S_CLUSTERS` | *** | The total list of Kubernetes clusters that the StatefulSet will replicate to. |
| `K8S_CLUSTER` | *** | The Kubernetes cluster the StatefulSet will be deployed to. |
| `K8S_SEED_CLUSTER` | *** | The Kubernetes cluster that the seed server is deployed to. |
| `K8S_NUM_REPLICAS` |     | The number of replicas that make up the StatefulSet. |
| `K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_PREFIX` |     | The string used as the prefix for all host names.  Defaults to `StatefulSet`. |
| `K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX` |     | The string used as the suffix for all pod host names.  Defaults to `K8S_CLUSTER`. |
| `K8S_SEED_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX` |     | The string used as the suffix for all seed host names.  Defaults to `K8S_SEED_CLUSTER`. |
| `K8S_INCREMENT_PORTS` |     | `true` or `false`.  If `true`, each pod's port will be incremented by 1. |

An example of the YAML configuration for these environment variables:

```yaml
K8S_STATEFUL_SET_NAME=pingdirectory
K8S_STATEFUL_SET_SERVICE_NAME=pingdirectory

K8S_CLUSTERS=us-east-2 eu-west-1
K8S_CLUSTER=us-east-2
K8S_SEED_CLUSTER=us-east-2
K8S_NUM_REPLICAS=3

K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_PREFIX=pd-
K8S_POD_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX=.us-cluster.ping-devops.com
K8S_SEED_HOSTNAME_SUFFIX=.us-cluster.ping-devops.com

K8S_INCREMENT_PORTS=true
LDAPS_PORT=8600
REPLICATION_PORT=8700
```

These environment variable settings would map out like this:

| Seed | Pod | Instance | Host name | LDAP | REPL |
| :---: | :---: | --- | --- | :---: | :---: |
|      |     | CLUSTER: us-east-2
| ***  | *** | pingdirectory-0.us-east-2 | pd-0.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8600  | 8700 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-1.us-east-2 | pd-1.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8601  | 8701 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-2.us-east-2 | pd-2.us-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8602  | 8702 |
|      |     | CLUSTER: eu-west-1
|      |     | pingdirectory-0.eu-west-1 | pd-0.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8600  | 8700 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-1.eu-west-1 | pd-1.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8601  | 8701 |
|      |     | pingdirectory-2.eu-west-1 | pd-2.eu-cluster.ping-devops.com | 8602  | 8702 |

## `StatefulSet` pod services

The `StatefulSet` service manages stateful objects for each pod.

An example of the StatefulSet service configuration (one pod):

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pingdirectory-0-service
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: pingdirectory-0
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8600
      targetPort: 8600
      name: ldaps
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 8700
      targetPort: 8700
      name: repl
```

## Additional Kubernetes resources required

In addition to the StatefulSet, other resources are required to properly map the load-balancers to the
pods. This diagram shows each of those resources:

![K8S Required Resources](images/multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory-resources.png)

### DNS

A DNS entry will be required at the load-balancer to direct a wildcard domain or individual host names
to the load-balancer created by the NGINX Ingress Service or Controller.  For AWS, this can simply be an `A record` alias for each host, or a wildcard `A record` for any host in that domain.

### NGINX Ingress Service and Controller

Several components map the ports from the external load-balancer through the NGINX Service and Controller:

* External load-balancer

  Provides an external IP and obtains definitions from the Ingress NGINX Service.

* Ingress NGINX Service

  Maps all port ranges (SEED_LDAPS_PORT, SEED_REPLICATION_PORT) to the same target port range.

* NGINX Ingress Controller

  Maps all port ranges to stateful set pods.

> **Caution**: Typically, the NGINX Service and TCP services (see the following *NGINX TCP services* topic) require additional namespace access (such as, `ingress-nginx-public`). Any additional applications using this service or controller will generally require additional privileges to manage this resource.

An example of the NGINX Service configuration:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: ingress-nginx
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
  namespace: ingress-nginx-public
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type: nlb
spec:
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
  externalTrafficPolicy: Local
  type: load-balancer
  ports:
    - name: http
      port: 80
      targetPort: http
    - name: https
      port: 443
      targetPort: https
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-0
      port: 8600
      targetPort: 8600
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-1
      port: 8601
      targetPort: 8601
    - name: ldaps-pingdiretory-2
      port: 8602
      targetPort: 8602
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-0
      port: 8700
      targetPort: 8700
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-1
      port: 8701
      targetPort: 8701
    - name: repl-pingdiretory-2
      port: 8702
      targetPort: 8702
```

### NGINX TCP services

The ConfigMap for TCP services (`tcp-services`) provides the mappings from the target ports on the NGINX Controller to the associated pod service.

> You'll need to replace the variable `${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}` with the namespace that your
 StatefulSet and Services are deployed into.

An example of the ConfigMap for the NGINX TCP services configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: tcp-services
  namespace: ingress-nginx-public
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: ingress-nginx
    app.kubernetes.io/role: ingress-nginx-public
data:
  8600: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-0-service:8600"
  8601: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-1-service:8601"
  8602: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-2-service:8602"
  8700: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-0-service:8700"
  8701: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-1-service:8701"
  8702: "${PING_IDENTITY_K8S_NAMESPACE}/pingdirectory-2-service:8702"
```

## Deployment Example

The examples in `20-kubernetes/05-multi-k8s-cluster-pingdirectory` will create an
example deployment across 3 clusters in AWS EKS:

* us-east-2 (SEED Cluster)
* eu-west-1

First, deploy the nginx services and configmap for the example.  This will allow
the services to be reached by the nginx controller via an AWS Network Load 
Balancer (nlb).  You must run these with a aws/kubernetes profile allowing for
apply into the `ingress-nginx-public` namespace.  Also, be aware that there may 
already be other definitions found.  You may need to merge.

```
  kubectl apply -f nginx-service.yaml
  kubectl apply -f nginx-tcp-services.yaml
```

The `cluster.sh` script will create the .yaml necessary to deploy a set of Ping 
Directory instances in each cluster and replication between.

```
  Usage: cluster.sh OPERATION {options}
   where OPERATION in:
        create
        apply
        delete

   where options in:
        --cluster {cluster}  - Cluster name used to identify different env_vars.pingdirecory
                               files

        --context {context}  - Name of Kubernetes context.
                                  Defaults to current context: tsigle.ping-dev-aws-us-east-2

        -d,--dry-run            - Provides the commands

  Example:
      cluster.sh create --cluser us-east-2
```

### Steps to create .yaml for us-east-2

Replace `your-cluster-name` with the name use are using.  Using the cluster name
`us-east-2`, the script will generate a .yaml using kustomize, using the files:

* `multi-cluster`
  * `kustomization.yaml`
  * `pingdirectory-service-clusterip.yaml`
  * `env_vars.pingdirectory` (built from env_vars.pingdirectory.multi-cluster and us-east-2)
* `base`
  * `kustomization.yaml`
  * `https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/20-kubernetes/03-replicated-pingdirectory`
  * `env_vars.pingdirectory`
  * `limits.yaml`

```
   ./cluster.sh delete --cluster us-east-2 --context your-cluster-name --dry-run
```

This will create a .yaml called `ouptut-us-east-2.yaml`.  

Next, ensure that your `devops-secret` and `tls-secret` are created.

```
  ping-devops generate devops-secret | kubectl create -f -
  ping-devops generate tls-secret ping-devops.com | kubectl create -f -
```

and create the instances using the generated `output-us-east-2.yaml`.

```
  kubectl create -f output-us-east-2.yaml
```
