docs/devopsUserKey.md, before:

# Using your DevOps user and key

When starting one of our containers, the container will attempt to find the DevOps registration information first in the DevOps property file located in `~/.pingidentity/devops`. This property file was created when you set up the DevOps environment (see [Get started](getStarted.md). If the DevOps registration information isn't found there, the container will check for environment variables assigned in the `docker run` command for standalone containers or in the YAML file for a stack.

## Display your DevOps information

To display your current DevOps environment information, run the DevOps command:

  `denv`

## For standalone containers

When using the `docker run` command to start a container, you can assign the `--env-file` argument to the file containing your DevOps registration information. For example:

```bash
docker run \
        --name pingdirectory \
        --publish 1389:389 \
        --publish 8443:443 \
        --detach \
        --env SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git \
        --env SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory \
        --env-file ~/.pingidentity/devops \
        pingidentity/pingdirectory
```

## For stacks

When you're going to deploy a stack, you can use either of these methods to assign the location of the file containing your DevOps registration information:

* The `env_file` configuration option. 
* The DevOps environment variables.

### Using the `env_file` configuration option

Add the `env_file` configuration option to the YAML file for the stack. The `env_file` configuration option passes environment variable definitions into the container.

For example:

```bash
...
pingdirectory:
    image: pingidentity/pingdirectory
    env_file:
    - ${HOME}/.pingidentity/devops
    environment:
    - SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git
    - SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory
...
```

### Using the DevOps environment variables

Add the `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` and `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY` DevOps environment variables to the YAML file for the stack.

For example:
```bash
...
  pingdirectory:
    image: pingidentity/pingdirectory
    environment:
      - SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git
      - SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory
      - PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER=jsmith@example.com
      - PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY=e9bd26ac-17e9-4133-a981-d7a7509314b2
...
```

## For Kubernetes

Our Kubernetes examples default to look for a Kubernetes secret named `devops-secret`.

You need to create a Kubernetes secret that contains the environment variables `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` and `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY`. 

1. If you don't already know your DevOps credentials, display these using the DevOps command: 

    ```bash
    denv
    ```

2. Generate the Kubernetes secret from your DevOps credentials using either the `ping-devops` utility, or manually:

    ```bash
    ping-devops generate devops-secret | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

    Manually:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic devops-secret \
        --from-literal=PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER="${PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER}" \
        --from-literal=PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY="${PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY}"
    ```

Commit message:

GDO-427 registration docs (#137)
* GDO-427: Update devops signup documentation

* GDO-427: Update devops registration doc to point to new registration process

* GDO-427: remove legacy denv command with ping-devops info

docs/devopsUserKey.md, after:

# Using your DevOps user and key

When starting one of our containers, the container will attempt to find the DevOps registration information first in the DevOps property file located in `~/.pingidentity/devops`. This property file was created when you set up the DevOps environment (see [Get started](getStarted.md). If the DevOps registration information isn't found there, the container will check for environment variables assigned in the `docker run` command for standalone containers or in the YAML file for a stack.

## Display your DevOps information

To display your current DevOps environment information, run the DevOps command:

  `ping-devops info`

## For standalone containers

When using the `docker run` command to start a container, you can assign the `--env-file` argument to the file containing your DevOps registration information. For example:

```bash
docker run \
        --name pingdirectory \
        --publish 1389:389 \
        --publish 8443:443 \
        --detach \
        --env SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git \
        --env SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory \
        --env-file ~/.pingidentity/devops \
        pingidentity/pingdirectory
```

## For stacks

When you're going to deploy a stack, you can use either of these methods to assign the location of the file containing your DevOps registration information:

* The `env_file` configuration option.
* The DevOps environment variables.

### Using the `env_file` configuration option

Add the `env_file` configuration option to the YAML file for the stack. The `env_file` configuration option passes environment variable definitions into the container.

For example:

```bash
...
pingdirectory:
    image: pingidentity/pingdirectory
    env_file:
    - ${HOME}/.pingidentity/devops
    environment:
    - SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git
    - SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory
...
```

### Using the DevOps environment variables

Add the `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` and `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY` DevOps environment variables to the YAML file for the stack.

For example:
```bash
...
  pingdirectory:
    image: pingidentity/pingdirectory
    environment:
      - SERVER_PROFILE_URL=https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles.git
      - SERVER_PROFILE_PATH=getting-started/pingdirectory
      - PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER=jsmith@example.com
      - PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY=e9bd26ac-17e9-4133-a981-d7a7509314b2
...
```

## For Kubernetes

Our Kubernetes examples default to look for a Kubernetes secret named `devops-secret`.

You need to create a Kubernetes secret that contains the environment variables `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` and `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY`.

1. If you don't already know your DevOps credentials, display these using the DevOps command:

    ```bash
    ping-devops info
    ```

2. Generate the Kubernetes secret from your DevOps credentials using either the `ping-devops` utility, or manually:

    ```bash
    ping-devops generate devops-secret | kubectl apply -f -
    ```

    Manually:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic devops-secret \
        --from-literal=PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER="${PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER}" \
        --from-literal=PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY="${PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY}"
    ```
