docs/README.md, before:

# Ping Identity DevOps

The goal of Ping Identity DevOps is to enable DevOps, administrators and developers with tools, frameworks, blueprints and reference architectures to deploy Ping Identity software in the cloud.

## Why Containerization?

**Deployments with Confidence** - Maintain all configurations and dependencies ensuring consistent environments. Eliminate the "it works on my machine" problem.

**Cloud Flexibility** - Containers are portable. All major cloud providers have embraced containers and have added support.

**Right-Size** - Orchestration allows businesses to increase fault tolerance, availability and cost management by auto-scaling to application demand.

## Before You Begin - Choose Your Path

There are different goals that you may have as you approach these docs. Here are some suggested paths, based on your goals:

* **Learn to use Ping Identity provided images** - if you are looking to learn how to use docker images that are _built and maintained_ by Ping to achieve the mentioned benefits of containerization: 
  1. Get an [evaluation license](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/prod-license#obtaining-a-ping-identity-devops-user-and-key) or use an [existing one](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/prod-license#using-an-existing-product-license-file)
  2. Go through the [examples](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples) as tutorials. Start with [quickstart](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/quickstart) it contains important setup and background. Then skip ahead if you are comfortable.
  3. Make sure you stop by and understand how to use [server profiles](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/server-profiles). Certain profiles are provided as samples. Once you begin customizing to your purpose, you'll want to create your own server profiles.
* **Quickly Evaluate a Ping Identity software product** - if you heard this is the fastest way test out product features \(especially for integrated cases\) and want minimum interaction with outside tooling. 
  1. Get an [evaluation license](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/prod-license#obtaining-a-ping-identity-devops-user-and-key)
  2. Save your DevOps User and Key in a text file. Example file:

     ```text
     PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER=jsmith@example.com
     PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY=e9bd26ac-17e9-4133-a981-d7a7509314b2
     ```

     > Be sure to use the exact variable names.

  3. Achieve these prereqs on your machine:
     * Install [Docker CE](https://docs.docker.com/v17.12/install/). [If using a mac](https://docs.docker.com/v17.12/docker-for-mac/install/) 
     * Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) and run `git clone https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started.git`
  4. Deploy the software [full-stack](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/11-docker-compose/03-full-stack). 
  5. Make sure to persist your work by [mounting to a local volume.](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/11-docker-compose#persisting-container-state-and-data)
* **Build your own images** - if your organization has certain requirements that are not met by the maintained images, you can use the Docker Builds for the maintained images as a baseline to create your own: 
  1. Look through the [Ping Identity Docker Builds](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds) repo
  2. Understand [Hooks](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/docker-builds/docker_builds_hooks)

## Documentation Sets

| Document | Audience |
| :--- | :--- |
| [Getting Started](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/blob/master/README.md) | Operations, Administrators |
| [Server Profiles](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/server-profiles) | Developers |
| [Docker Builds](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/docker-builds) | DevOps Experts |

## Commercial Support

THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY.

Please contact devops\_program@pingidentity.com for details

## Copyright

Copyright © 2019 Ping Identity. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

improve core docs readability/usage.  (#81)
* closer to pcb format

* test

* test

* fix

* fix link

* fix link

* fix link

* test link

* adding links

* add link

* update docs and links

* editing

* format

* initial docs update

* formatting

* update quickstart to be more POC focused.

* formatting

* editing

* edit

* typo

docs/README.md, after:

# Ping Identity DevOps

The goal of Ping Identity DevOps is to enable DevOps, administrators and developers with tools, frameworks, blueprints and reference architectures to deploy Ping Identity software in the cloud.

This site is intended to be a collection of documentation from three, devops focused, Ping Identity Github repos: 
* **[pingidentity-docker-builds](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds)** - Repository from which Ping Identity Docker Images are built. Documentation is found within the Dockerfiles and collected here in the "[Docker Images](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/docker-images)" section.
* **[pingidentity-devops-getting-started](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started)** - Repository with various use-case examples. Documentation is in the repository next to the examples and collected here in the "[Examples](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples)" section. 
* **[pingidentity-server-profiles](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-server-profiles)** - Profiles are used to externalize configuration from products so it can be pulled in a repeatable manner at container startup. This repository contains samples for different use cases and documentation is collected in the "[Server Profiles](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/server-profiles)" section

## Why Containerization?

**Deployments with Confidence** - Maintain all configurations and dependencies ensuring consistent environments. Eliminate the "it works on my machine" problem.

**Cloud Flexibility** - Containers are portable. All major cloud providers have embraced containers and have added support.

**Right-Size** - Orchestration allows businesses to increase fault tolerance, availability and cost management by auto-scaling to application demand.

## Before You Begin - Choose Your Path


There are different goals that you may have as you approach these docs. Here are some suggested paths, based on your goals:

* **Learn to use Ping Identity provided images** - Looking to thoroughly understant how to use Ping Identity docker images? : 
  1. [Register](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/prod-license#obtaining-a-ping-identity-devops-user-and-key) for a DevOps User and Key.
  2. Go through the [quickstart](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/quickstart), as it contains important setup and background. 
  3. Checkout the [examples](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples) as tutorials.  Skip around if you are comfortable.
  4. Make sure you stop by and understand how to use [server profiles](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/server-profiles). Certain profiles are provided as samples. Once you begin customizing to your purpose, you'll want to create your own server profiles.
* **Quickly Evaluate a Ping Identity software product** - Absolute fastest way to get a full-stack of Ping Identity software running : 

  1. [Register](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/prod-license#obtaining-a-ping-identity-devops-user-and-key) for a DevOps User and Key
  2. Save your DevOps User and Key in a text file. Example file:

    ```text
    PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER=jsmith@example.com
    PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY=e9bd26ac-17e9-4133-a981-d7a7509314b2
    ```

    > Be sure to use the exact variable names.

  3. Achieve these prereqs on your machine:
    * Install [Docker CE](https://docs.docker.com/v17.12/install/). [If using a mac](https://docs.docker.com/v17.12/docker-for-mac/install/) 
    * Install [Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
  4. Copy this [docker-compose.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/master/11-docker-compose/03-full-stack/docker-compose.yaml) to your machine where Docker is running. 
  5. Deploy the software [full-stack](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/11-docker-compose/03-full-stack). 
  6. Optional: Persist your work by [mounting to a local volume.](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/examples/11-docker-compose#persisting-container-state-and-data)
* **Customize the Ping Identity Docker Images** - If there is some missing functionality that you believe other Ping Identity customers may benefit from, create a feature request on the [docker-builds repo](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds) or email the team via devops_program@pingidentity.com. If you require organization specific features, you can customize the functionality of the images: 
  1. Look through the [Ping Identity Docker Builds](https://github.com/pingidentity/pingidentity-docker-builds) repo
  2. Understand [Hooks](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/docker-builds/docker_builds_hooks)
  3. Create your own hooks and pass them in via a [server profile](https://pingidentity-devops.gitbook.io/devops/server-profiles) or mounted volume. 
  <!-- TODO: LINK TO CUSTOMIZING IMAGES NEEDED HERE -->
  > Every effort has been made to allow customers to customize the images rather than rebuild; providing support on customer built images is difficult. If there is something that you cannot customize feel free to reach out first, even if just for awareness. 

## Commercial Support

THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY.

Please contact devops\_program@pingidentity.com for details

## Copyright

Copyright © 2019 Ping Identity. All rights reserved.
