docs/reference/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title:  Troubleshooting
---
# Troubleshooting

## Getting started

### Examples Not Working

One of the most common errors is from having stale images. Our development is highly dynamic and Docker images can rapidly change.

To avoid issues with stale images and have Docker pull the latest images by removing all the local, enter:

  ```shell
  docker rmi $(docker images "pingidentity/*" -q)
  ```

> Having images tagged as "latest" locally does not mean they are the latest in the Docker hub registry.

### Misconfigured `~/.bash_profile` file

If your containers can't pull a license based on your DevOps user name and key, or running `dhelp` returns an error, there might be some misconfiguration in your `~/.bash_profile` file.

Possible solutions:

1. If you have *just* run `./setup` for the first time, make sure you are have done so in a fresh terminal or have run `source ~/.bash_profile`.

1. If running `echo PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` returns nothing in a fresh terminal, it's likely your `~/.bash_profile` file is misconfigured. There are two entries that need to be there:

      ```text
      source <path>/pingidentity-devops-getting-started/bash_profile_devops
      ```

      Where &lt;path&gt; is the full path to the `pingidentity-devops-getting-started` directory. This entry sources our DevOps aliases.

      There also needs to be another entry for:

      ```text
      sourcePingIdentityFiles
      ```

      This entry sources the Ping Identity file aliases.

      Make sure there are not old versions or duplicates of these entries.

1. If you are running in Kubernetes, keep in mind that your `PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER` and key are local variables and need to be [Passed as a Secret](../how-to/existingLicense.md) in your cluster.

### Unable To Retrieve Evaluation License

If a product instance or instances can't get the evaluation license, you might receive an error similar to this:

  ```text
  ----- Starting hook: /opt/staging/hooks/17-check-license.sh
  Pulling evaluation license from Ping Identity for:
                Prod License: PD - v7.3
                DevOps User: some-devops-user@example.com...
  Unable to download evaluation product.lic (000), most likely due to invalid PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER/PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY

  ##################################################################################
  ############################        ALERT        #################################
  ##################################################################################
  #
  # No Ping Identity License File (PingDirectory.lic) was found in the server profile.
  # No Ping Identity DevOps User or Key was passed.
  #
  #
  # More info on obtaining your DevOps User and Key can be found at:
  #     https://devops.pingidentity.com/get-started/devopsRegistration/
  #
  ##################################################################################
  CONTAINER FAILURE: License File absent
  CONTAINER FAILURE: Error running 17-check-license.sh
  CONTAINER FAILURE: Error running 10-start-sequence.sh
  ```

This can be caused by:

1. An invalid DevOps user name or key (as noted in the error). This is usually caused by some issue with the variables being passed in.

     To verify the variables are available to the shell running (when running Docker commands), enter:

      ```shell
      echo $PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER $PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY
      ```

1. A bad Docker image. Pull the Docker image again to verify.

1. Network connectivity to the license server is blocked. To test this, from the machine that's running the container, enter:

      ```shell
      curl -k https://license.pingidentity.com/devops/license
      ```

      If the license server is accessible, you receive an error similar to this:

      ```shell
      { "error":"missing devops-user header" }
      ```

Commit message:

BRASS-442: Deprecate PingDownloader
- Added PingDownloader deprecation documentation to the tools section.
The docs include deprecation reasons and work arounds for both product
files and license files.
- Removed the docker-images/pingdownloader directory and pages as the
image is no longer built.
- Removed bash_profile_devops as it has been deprecated for 2 years.
- Deprecated Upgrading PingFederate Documentation as it uses the old
get-bits via bits.pingidentity.com scripts. These docs will need to be
updated soon.
- Updated troubleshooting.md to focus on pingctl instead of the removed
file bash_profile_devops.
- Removed various references to PingDownloader.

docs/reference/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title:  Troubleshooting
---
# Troubleshooting

## Getting started

### Examples Not Working

One of the most common errors is from having stale images. Our development is highly dynamic and Docker images can rapidly change.

To avoid issues with stale images and have Docker pull the latest images by removing all the local, enter:

  ```shell
  docker rmi $(docker images "pingidentity/*" -q)
  ```

> Having images tagged as "latest" locally does not mean they are the latest in the Docker hub registry.

### Misconfigured `pingctl`

If your containers can't pull a license based on your DevOps user name and key, there might be some misconfiguration in your `pingctl config` file.

Possible solutions:

1. If you have *just* run `pingctl config` for the first time. See the [Environment Configuration Documentation](https://devops.pingidentity.com/get-started/prereqs/#configure-the-environment) on how to export configured variables to your environment.

1. Run `pingctl info` and make sure the configured variables in the utility are correct. See the utility's [Documentation](https://devops.pingidentity.com/tools/pingctlUtil/) for more information.

### Unable To Retrieve Evaluation License

If a product instance or instances can't get the evaluation license, you might receive an error similar to this:

  ```text
  ----- Starting hook: /opt/staging/hooks/17-check-license.sh
  Pulling evaluation license from Ping Identity for:
                Prod License: PD - v7.3
                DevOps User: some-devops-user@example.com...
  Unable to download evaluation product.lic (000), most likely due to invalid PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_USER/PING_IDENTITY_DEVOPS_KEY

  ##################################################################################
  ############################        ALERT        #################################
  ##################################################################################
  #
  # No Ping Identity License File (PingDirectory.lic) was found in the server profile.
  # No Ping Identity DevOps User or Key was passed.
  #
  #
  # More info on obtaining your DevOps User and Key can be found at:
  #     https://devops.pingidentity.com/get-started/devopsRegistration/
  #
  ##################################################################################
  CONTAINER FAILURE: License File absent
  CONTAINER FAILURE: Error running 17-check-license.sh
  CONTAINER FAILURE: Error running 10-start-sequence.sh
  ```

This can be caused by:

1. An invalid DevOps user name or key (as noted in the error). This is usually caused by some issue with the variables being passed in.

     To verify the variables in pingctl's configuration are correct for running Docker commands, enter the following command and verify your configuration:

      ```shell
      pingctl info
      ```

1. A bad Docker image. Pull the Docker image again to verify.

1. Network connectivity to the license server is blocked. To test this, from the machine that's running the container, enter:

      ```shell
      curl -k https://license.pingidentity.com/devops/license
      ```

      If the license server is accessible, you receive an error similar to this:

      ```shell
      { "error":"missing devops-user header" }
      ```
